README.md, before:

# Ansible Role: Supervisor

[![CI](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-supervisor/workflows/CI/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-supervisor/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)

An Ansible Role that installs [Supervisor](http://supervisord.org/) on Linux.

## Requirements

Python `pip` should be installed. If it is not already installed, you can use the `geerlingguy.pip` Ansible role to install Pip prior to running this role.

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    supervisor_version: ''

Install a specific version of Supervisor by setting it here. See [available Supervisor versions](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/supervisor) on Pypi. If no version is set, it will install the latest stable version of Supervisor when the role is run.

    supervisor_started: true
    supervisor_enabled: true

Choose whether to use an init script or systemd unit configuration to start Supervisor when it's installed and/or after a system boot.

    supervisor_config_path: /etc/supervisor

The path where Supervisor configuration should be stored.

    supervisor_programs:
      - name: 'foo'
        command: /bin/cat
        state: present
    
      - name: 'apache'
        command: apache2ctl -DFOREGROUND
        state: present
        configuration: |
          autostart=true
          autorestart=true
          startretries=1
          startsecs=1
          redirect_stderr=true
          stderr_logfile=/var/log/apache-err.log
          stdout_logfile=/var/log/apache-out.log
          user=root
          killasgroup=true
          stopasgroup=true

`supervisor_programs` is an empty list by default; you can define a list of `program`s to be managed by Supervisor. If you set `state` to `present`, then a configuration file for the program (named `[program-name-here].conf`) will be added to the `conf.d` path included by the global Supervisor configuration. You can also manage program-level configuration on your own, outside this role, if you need more flexibility.

    supervisor_nodaemon: false

Set to `true` if you need to run Supervisor in the foreground.

    supervisor_log_dir: /var/log/supervisor

The location where Supervisor logs will be stored.

    supervisor_user: root
    supervisor_password: 'my_secret_password'

The user under which `supervisord` will be run, and the password to be used when connecting to Supervisor's HTTP server (either for `supervisorctl` access, or when viewing the administrative UI).

    supervisor_unix_http_server_password_protect: true
    supervisor_inet_http_server_password_protect: true

Password protection can be turned off for Unix HTTP and Inet HTTP by setting these variables to `false`, This would disable password protection for `supervisorctl` as well.

    supervisor_unix_http_server_enable: true
    supervisor_unix_http_server_socket_path: /var/run/supervisor.sock

Whether to enable the UNIX socket-based HTTP server, and the socket file to use if enabled.

> **Note**: By default, this role enables an HTTP server over a UNIX socket that can be accessed locally using the `_user` and `_password` defined earlier. Make sure you set a secure `supervisor_password` to prevent unauthorized access! (Or, if you don't need to HTTP server nor need to use `supervisorctl`, you should disable the UNIX http server by setting this variable to `false`).

    supervisor_inet_http_server_enable: false
    supervisor_inet_http_server_port: '*:9001'

Whether to enable the TCP-based HTTP server, and the interface and port on which the server should listen if enabled.

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: all
      roles:
        - geerlingguy.pip
        - geerlingguy.supervisor

If you need to use `supervisorctl`, you can either use [Ansible's built-in `supervisorctl` module](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/community/general/supervisorctl_module.html) for management, or run it like so (accounting for the variable path to the configuration directory):

    supervisorctl -c /etc/supervisor/supervisord.conf -u root -p [password] status all

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This role was created in 2017 by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).

Commit message:

Allow using APT to install Supervisor
Two main reasons to prefer using apt:

* On Debian 12, installing supervisor with pip as a global package, like
  this role does, is no longer permitted.
* Pip needs compilers and other dangerous packages, that should not be
  installed if not needed.

A variable is introduced to allow for this, by default the role behaves
as it did before, i.e. uses pip.

README.md, after:

# Ansible Role: Supervisor

[![CI](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-supervisor/workflows/CI/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-supervisor/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)

An Ansible Role that installs [Supervisor](http://supervisord.org/) on Linux.

## Requirements

### Using `pip`

By default, Python `pip` is used to install Supervisor, it hence should be installed. If it is not already installed, you can use the `geerlingguy.pip` Ansible role to install Pip prior to running this role.

### Using `apt`

On distributions that support it and if Supervisor is packaged, you can use `apt` to install Supervisor by specifying, as a variable:

    supervisor_apt_install: true

Depending on your distribution, the binary paths (default: `/usr/bin/local/supervisor` and `/usr/bin/local/supervisorctl`) can be overwritten:

    supervisor_bin_path: /usr/bin/supervisor
    supervisorctl_bin_path: /usr/bin/supervisorctl

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    supervisor_version: ''

Install a specific version of Supervisor by setting it here. See [available Supervisor versions](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/supervisor) on Pypi. If no version is set, it will install the latest stable version of Supervisor when the role is run.

    supervisor_started: true
    supervisor_enabled: true

Choose whether to use an init script or systemd unit configuration to start Supervisor when it's installed and/or after a system boot.

    supervisor_config_path: /etc/supervisor

The path where Supervisor configuration should be stored.

    supervisor_programs:
      - name: 'foo'
        command: /bin/cat
        state: present
    
      - name: 'apache'
        command: apache2ctl -DFOREGROUND
        state: present
        configuration: |
          autostart=true
          autorestart=true
          startretries=1
          startsecs=1
          redirect_stderr=true
          stderr_logfile=/var/log/apache-err.log
          stdout_logfile=/var/log/apache-out.log
          user=root
          killasgroup=true
          stopasgroup=true

`supervisor_programs` is an empty list by default; you can define a list of `program`s to be managed by Supervisor. If you set `state` to `present`, then a configuration file for the program (named `[program-name-here].conf`) will be added to the `conf.d` path included by the global Supervisor configuration. You can also manage program-level configuration on your own, outside this role, if you need more flexibility.

    supervisor_nodaemon: false

Set to `true` if you need to run Supervisor in the foreground.

    supervisor_log_dir: /var/log/supervisor

The location where Supervisor logs will be stored.

    supervisor_user: root
    supervisor_password: 'my_secret_password'

The user under which `supervisord` will be run, and the password to be used when connecting to Supervisor's HTTP server (either for `supervisorctl` access, or when viewing the administrative UI).

    supervisor_unix_http_server_password_protect: true
    supervisor_inet_http_server_password_protect: true

Password protection can be turned off for Unix HTTP and Inet HTTP by setting these variables to `false`, This would disable password protection for `supervisorctl` as well.

    supervisor_unix_http_server_enable: true
    supervisor_unix_http_server_socket_path: /var/run/supervisor.sock

Whether to enable the UNIX socket-based HTTP server, and the socket file to use if enabled.

> **Note**: By default, this role enables an HTTP server over a UNIX socket that can be accessed locally using the `_user` and `_password` defined earlier. Make sure you set a secure `supervisor_password` to prevent unauthorized access! (Or, if you don't need to HTTP server nor need to use `supervisorctl`, you should disable the UNIX http server by setting this variable to `false`).

    supervisor_inet_http_server_enable: false
    supervisor_inet_http_server_port: '*:9001'

Whether to enable the TCP-based HTTP server, and the interface and port on which the server should listen if enabled.

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: all
      roles:
        - geerlingguy.pip
        - geerlingguy.supervisor

If you need to use `supervisorctl`, you can either use [Ansible's built-in `supervisorctl` module](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/community/general/supervisorctl_module.html) for management, or run it like so (accounting for the variable path to the configuration directory):

    supervisorctl -c /etc/supervisor/supervisord.conf -u root -p [password] status all

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This role was created in 2017 by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).
